---
title: "SDC Mission Statement Wordclouds"
output:
  pdf_document: default
date: "2023-07-06"
---

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE)
```

```{r}
library(wordcloud)
library(RColorBrewer)
library(wordcloud2)
library(reshape)
library(tm)
library(stringr)
```

```{r}
al <- "The Alabama State Data Center (ASDC) was formed in 1978 as a partnership between the U.S. Census Bureau and the State of Alabama to empower data users throughout the state with understandable, accurate, and timely information. The main emphasis of the ASDC is disseminating information and data produced by the Census Bureau to state and local governments and the data users within our community. The Center for Business and Economic Research (CBER) is the lead data center for ASDC and coordinates the affiliate data centers throughout the state. To support the data dissemination mission, you can reach out to CBER staff or the regional ASDC affiliates with data requests, and we’ll answer questions, help you find and access data, or connect you with the Census Bureau for free. As the lead agency, CBER also pulls some relevant demographic data and houses it on our Alabama Demographics webpage for easy access"

az <- "The State Data Center (SDC) Program is one of the Census Bureau's longest and most successful partnerships. The partnership between the 50 states, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the island areas and the Census Bureau was created in 1978 to make data available locally to the public through a network of state agencies, universities, libraries, and regional and local governments."

ak <- "The Arkansas Data Center website provides a variety of Census data, both past and present, of interest to Arkansans."

ca <- "The State Census Data Center (SCDC) was established on January 1, 1979, to serve as the central point for the dissemination of census data in California. The SCDC program was instituted by the U.S. Census Bureau to increase and improve public access to census data products. The SCDC provides services to state and local government agencies and to the general public. The Center processes machine-readable data files; prepares customized reports; and provides user consultation, data analysis, mapping, and training workshops upon request. The SCDC library houses publications and maps from the decennial censuses, the American Community Survey, the Current Population Survey, and other special and periodic surveys." 

connecticut <- "In 1978, the Census State Data Center (SDC) Program began as a cooperative agreement between the states and the U.S. Census Bureau. State Data Centers assist the Census Bureau by disseminating census and other federal statistics. As a Census State Data Center partner, CTData is the local resource to contact with questions about finding and interpreting census data. In addition to census data, we also make state public data available in an accessible format. As the CT Census State Data Center we: Provide press releases about data trends throughout Connecticut, Share tutorials on how to access census data online, Answer questions about census data, Publicize available datasets through our networks, Manage a statewide data portal with accessible data tools, Partner with local governments in maintaining proper boundary files at the Census Bureau, Advocate for accurate and timely data products"

delaware <- "The Delaware Census State Data Center is a network of state, local, academic and private sector partners organized under an agreement between the State of Delaware and the U.S. Census Bureau and working together to create, share, and disseminate demographic, economic and other data for Delaware."

dc <- "The State Data Center (SDC) is a mandated function of the Office of Planning set in place by a memorandum of agreement between the Census Bureau and the District of Columbia government in 1978. The SDC is part of a network of 56 SDC lead organizations and approximately 1,800 affiliates. The mission of the SDC is to provide easy and effective access to the Census Bureau’s data and information. The main functions of the SDC are: program administration, data dissemination, data analyses, technical assistance and consultation, product development, and education and promotion of censuses and surveys."

fl <- "The Office of Economic and Demographic Research has been designated by statute as the lead for the Census Bureau's State Data Center Program. This partnership program enables the state to interact with the Census Bureau regarding new and existing products, programs, and tools. As part of this program, EDR wil be creating customized census products and assisting data users with their needs. In addition, EDR's redistricting pages provide links to current and historical US Congressional, Florida House, and Florida Senate district maps and data. These products include the following: Census Data, Census Data Tools, Census Training, Census Surveys and Programs, Income and Poverty Estimates, Census Products Developed by Other State Agencies"

hi <- "The Hawaii State Data Center is a local source that distributes census data; assists the public in the use of census data by providing technical advice; educates the public by providing guides and sponsoring training on census data, products and tools; and maintains a network of affiliate organizations throughout the state."

indiana <- "In 1978, the State Data Center (SDC) Program began as a cooperative agreement between the states and the U.S. Census Bureau. State Data Centers assist the Census Bureau by disseminating Census and other federal statistics. The Indiana State Data Center makes the Census as well as other federal and state statistics on such topics as demographics and economics available through a statewide network of affiliates located in state agencies, universities, libraries, local planning agencies, small business development centers, and non-profit organizations. We provide data and training services to all sectors of the community including government agencies, businesses, academia, non-profit organizations, and private citizens.  Our products and services are used in marketing, economic development, community planning and analysis, grant writing, business start-ups, and much more."

iowa <- "The State Data Center is a unit of the State Library of Iowa. The mission of the State Data Center is to increase the availability of census data in Iowa and to help people use it. The State Data Center is an advocate for policies to improve census data about Iowa. To carry out our mission to the people of Iowa, the State Data Center provides: An official Web site of U.S. Census Bureau demographic, social, economic, and housing statistics about Iowa, Answers to quick data requests, Custom data tabulations, Thematic maps, Statistical profiles of Iowa communities and special population group, Consultations on appropriate uses of data, Referrals to quality data sources, Training on finding and using statistics about Iowa"

ks <- "As the SDC lead agency, IPSR will: Identify, recruit, and manage an affiliate network of nonprofit stakeholders in the state of Kansas who have a role in economic development efforts or otherwise use diverse economic and demographic data in their efforts; Identify data and training needs; Assist in training data users and affiliates; Provide feedback to the U.S. Census Bureau on products and data; Encourage participation by businesses, local governments, and the public in data collection efforts by the Census Bureau; Reprint, extract, reformat, analyze, or otherwise prepare appropriate subsets of Census data for redistribution to data users and affiliates;"

kentucky <- "The Kentucky State Data Center (KSDC) is the state’s lead agency in the U.S. Census Bureau’s State Data Center Program and Kentucky’s official clearinghouse for Census data.  The State Data Center program was initiated by the U.S. Census Bureau in 1978 in order to facilitate the dissemination of Census data to data users across the state and to provide a vehicle for user feedback to the Census Bureau. The Kentucky State Data Center is housed in the Department of Urban and Public Affairs in the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Louisville. KSDC’s mission is to empower data users with comprehensive, accurate, and timely information. The Kentucky State Data Center’s Core Responsibilities are: Program administration; Data dissemination; Data analysis and technical assistance; Promotion of Census Bureau products; Training and education; Assistance with Census operations; Participation in annual meeting"

maine <- "The Maine State Data Center (SDC), led by the State Economist’s office, provides demographic and economic data for the state of Maine. The goal of this program, which is a partnership between the state and the U.S. Census Bureau, is to foster public access to data."

maryland <- "The Maryland State Data Center (SDC) is an official partner with the U.S. Census Bureau. The Maryland Department of Planning coordinates the SDC program in Maryland. SDC monitors development trends, analyzes social, economic and other characteristics and prepares population, housing, employment, labor force, and income projections, which provide the baseline for planning for growth and development in the State."

massa <- "Staffed by members of the Economic and Public Policy Research group, the Massachusetts State Data Center is part of the national State Data Center (SDC) Network, a cooperative program between the states and the U.S. Census Bureau to make data locally accessible. The SDC program’s mission is to provide easy and efficient access to all U.S. Census Bureau data and information through agencies in each state. The SDCs are official sources of demographic, economic, and social statistics produced by the U. S. Census Bureau, such as the American Community Survey, Decennial Census, Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics, and County Business Patterns data sets. For those interested in accessing and using Census Bureau data, the SDC also provides training and technical assistance. The Massachusetts SDC maintains its own network of Massachusetts affiliates including state agencies, universities, libraries, and regional and local governments which it relies on to provide local knowledge and expertise. The State Data Center, as a part of the Economic & Public Policy Research group, also produces a comprehensive economic overview of Massachusetts called the Socioeconomic Indicators Report for the Massachusetts State Treasurer’s Department of Debt Management, in support of bond financing initiatives. Please see our report archives for more."

minnesota <- "The Minnesota State Demographic Center (SDC), part of the Minnesota Department of Administration, is the main provider of demographic data and analysis for the state of Minnesota. The SDC assists policymakers, state and local governments, businesses, nonprofits, the media, and all Minnesotans locate and understand the demographic data they need to make smart decisions."
  
mississippi <- "The State Data Center (SDC) of Mississippi is a collaborative partnership between the University of Mississippi, the State of Mississippi, and the US Census Bureau that provides: Outreach and education, Technical assistance with data requests and analysis, Networking between data users and the Census Bureau, Representation for Mississippi with the Federal-State Cooperative for Population Estimates"
  
missouri <- "The Missouri Census Data Center (MCDC) is a cooperative program among state agencies in Missouri and the U.S. Bureau of the Census. Its purpose is to enhance awareness of and access to public data, especially Census Bureau products. The MCDC data archive, which includes many national collections as well as Missouri-specific data, is one of the premier sites in the country for accessing census and other public, machine-readable demographic and geographic data."

montana <- "The Census and Economic Information Center provides current, easily accessible, and thorough economic and demographic analysis, data, maps, and expert assistance to meet the needs and requests of the people in the State of Montana."

nv <- "The Nevada State Data Center (SDC) program was established in 1982 as a service of the Nevada State Library, Archives & Public Records. The SDC provides training and technical assistance in accessing and using Census data for the planning, decision-making, administration and research needs of Nevada's state and local governments, businesses, researchers and others."
  
nh <- "The Office of Planning and Development and the US Bureau of the Census jointly support the State Data Center to provide the public with access to census data and customized data products such as OPD's annual population estimates. The mission of the State Data Center (SDC) is: To provide the citizens of each State with convenient access to statistical information from the US Bureau of the Census for planning research, decision making and administration in government, education, business and other areas of life and work. Established in 1978, the State Data Center is a cooperative program between the states and the US Census Bureau. Its intended purpose is to make census information available locally to the public through a network of State agencies, universities, libraries and regional/local governments. The Office of State Planning (now Office of Energy & Planning) was established on February 1, 1982 as the lead agency for New Hampshire's program and has remained so for the last 20+ years. The SDC is New Hampshire's official source for population statistics. It is also the state's representative to the Federal-State Cooperative Programs for Population Estimates (FSCPE) and Population Projections (FSCPP). The SDC assists government agencies, businesses, non-profit organizations, schools and individuals, answering more than 1,700 requests for information per year."
  
nj <- "The New Jersey State Data Center (NJSDC) is a cooperative project of the State of New Jersey and the U.S. Bureau of the Census. the NJSDC has three main objectives as it works to serve data users in the public, private, and academic sectors: Expand access to and use of Census and other statistics, Provide technical assistance and analytical support in the use of these statistics, Provide user training on timely, Census-related topics"
  
ny <- "Welcome to the New York State Data Center (NYSDC), located in the Division of Research and Statistics within the New York State Department of Labor. The State Data Center operates as part of a nationwide effort to improve public access to data provided by the U.S. Census Bureau. The U.S. Census Bureau collects and tabulates data on a multitude of subjects such as population, social, economic and housing demographics, labor force data, health care, migration and transportation. These data play a critical role in understanding our local and larger surrounding communities. Census data also influence state and federal funding, aid decision making in the legislative process, and determine each state's number of congressional seats. As the lead agency in New York for the SDC program, we are here to help you navigate through the multitude of surveys and products provided by the U.S. Census Bureau."

nc <- "The State Data Center is a consortium of agencies cooperating with the US Bureau of the Census to provide the public with data about the state and its component geographic areas. The SDC lead agency is located in the Demographic and Economic Analysis Section of OSBM, where it provides extensive resources for retrieving statistical information."
  
nd <- "The North Dakota State Data Center serves as the state's liaison to the US Census Bureau and is the state repository of census information. This site contains general data for North Dakota regarding the decennial census and population estimates released since its completion. The State Data Center also serves as North Dakota's representative to the Federal-State Cooperative for Population Estimates (FSCPE) and the Federal-State Cooperative for Population Projections (FSCPP). The State Data Center serves as the lead agency in the state census network which consists of two coordinating agencies and 16 affiliates throughout the state."  

ohio <- "The Office of Research provides data and analysis on the economic, industrial, demographic, and program trends of the state of Ohio, its businesses, and its people. Through reports, maps, and databases, businesses and individuals can find descriptive data on the economic activities of Ohio as well as the population trends of cities, villages, townships, and counties. The Research Office also acts as the state government liaison to the U.S. Bureau of the Census."
  
ok <- "The Oklahoma Department of Commerce operates the State Data Center for the state of Oklahoma. A partner of the U.S. Census Bureau, the State Data Center ensures Oklahoma’s citizens, communities, and businesses have access to critical Census data."
  
or <- "The mission of PRC is to provide population data, information, and research analysis for Oregon and its communities. Resource-wise, this means providing PRC staff and students with administrative, computing, and information services that support their population-related agendas. Center staff engage in a variety of demographic activities, including the Oregon State Data Center, the Oregon Population Estimates and Projections Program, and a variety of population projects. PRC staff also teach in the Nohad A. Toulan School of Urban Studies and Planning, supporting a graduate concentration in applied demography and a graduate certificate program in applied demography."  

penn <- "The availability of timely, accurate, and useful information is a key factor in economic competitiveness and survival and for day to day decision-making regardless of whether you are a business, non-profit organization or a governmental entity. If you are formulating a marketing plan, relocating or starting a business, developing a customer profile, working on a public policy initiative or just want a demographic figure, The Pennsylvania State Data Center has the information you need. The Pennsylvania State Data Center serves as Pennsylvania's official source of population and economic statistics. In addition to acting as Pennsylvania's liaison to the Census Bureau, the PaSDC is the state's representative to the Federal-State Cooperative Programs for Population Estimates and for Population Projections."

ri <- "The Data Center provides a range of resources based on demographic data provided by the U.S. Census Bureau and other agencies. In addition to preparing tables of Census and American Community Survey (ACS) data, the Data Center also produces population projections and monthly Census Data Bulletins. "


sc <- "The South Carolina Census State Data Center provides U.S. Census Bureau demographic, social, economic, and housing data for South Carolina. The State Data Center Program is a cooperative program between the states and the Census Bureau that was created in 1978 to make data available locally to the public through a network of state agencies, universities, libraries, and regional and local governments. State Data Centers also provide training and technical assistance in the use of Census Bureau data for research, administration, planning and decision making to local governments, the business community, researchers, and other interested data users."

sd <- "The Center assists people in successfully accessing census data for effective decision-making and sometimes just plain curiosity. We also take on special projects for organizations that have special data needs. We develop projects and seek additional funding to provide more and better data to the citizens and communities of South Dakota. Finally, we provide training to help people more effectively use the census data and presentations about our findings using the data. Our work is informed by a state-wide advisory committee."

tn <- "Our mission is simple – to make Tennessee’s data users stronger. We are experts in accessing, understanding and disseminating data about Tennessee’s population, demographics and economy. We make data understandable and useful to citizens and agencies across the state, and will work continuously to find innovative ways to add value to Tennessee’s state and local government agencies."

tx <- "The Texas Demographic Center functions as a focal point for the production, interpretation, and distribution of demographic information for Texas. The Texas Demographic Center produces and disseminates population estimates and projections for Texas, as well as other demographic information. Special emphasis is placed on data that may be useful to policy makers in dealing with issues regarding the demand for State services."

ut <- "The Gardner Policy Institute provides demographic decision support to the Utah State Legislature and Office of the Governor. We produce population estimates and projections, as well as applied demographic research focused on Utah. We represent the state in work with the Census Bureau, including the State Data Center Program and Federal State Cooperatives for Population Estimates and Projections. We work with the Census Bureau in production, distribution, and analysis of their product."

vt <- "The State Data Center (SDC) Program is a cooperative program between the states and the U.S. Census Bureau to make data available locally to the public through a network of state agencies, universities, libraries, and regional and local organizations. The SDC program's mission is to provide easy and efficient access to Census data and information through a wide network of lead, coordinating and affiliate agencies in each state. The SDCs also provide training and technical assistance in accessing and using Census data for research, administration, planning and decision making by local governments, the business community, and other interested data users."



wisc <- "Demographic Services Center (DSC) staff develop annual estimates and future projections of the population for all Wisconsin towns, villages, and cities. DSC is also a US Census Bureau State Data Center (SDC) Lead Agency, helping people acquire and use Census Bureau data. We also review and provide access to records such as annexation petitions and ordinances on our Municipal Data System (MDS)."


marianna <- "Our division’s main role is compiling all statistical information gathered by both the CNMI and U.S. Federal Government on the Northern Mariana Islands. CSD provides statistical information that includes the Decennial Census Reports, Economic Indicator Reports, CPI, and other surveys and censuses conducted over the years."
```

```{r}
combo <- paste(al, az, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, ak, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, ca, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, connecticut, sep="")

combo <- paste(combo, delaware, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, dc, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, fl, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, hi, sep="")

combo <- paste(combo, indiana, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, iowa, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, ks, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, kentucky, sep="")

combo <- paste(combo, maine, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, maryland, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, massa, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, minnesota, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, mississippi, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, missouri, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, montana, sep="")

combo <- paste(combo, nv, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, nh, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, nj, sep="")

combo <- paste(combo, ny, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, nc, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, nd, sep="")

combo <- paste(combo, ohio, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, ok, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, or, sep="")

combo <- paste(combo, penn, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, ri, sep="")

combo <- paste(combo, sc, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, sd, sep="")

combo <- paste(combo, tn, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, tx, sep="")

combo <- paste(combo, ut, sep="")
combo <- paste(combo, vt, sep="")

combo <- paste(combo, wisc, sep="")

combo <- paste(combo, marianna, sep="")
```

```{r}
#Turns string into corpus of words
docs <- Corpus(VectorSource(combo))
```

```{r}
#Cleaning of corpus
docs <- docs %>% tm_map(removeNumbers) %>% tm_map(removePunctuation) %>% tm_map(stripWhitespace)
docs <- tm_map(docs, content_transformer(tolower))
docs <- tm_map(docs, removeWords, stopwords("english"))
```

```{r}
#Turns corpus into term-document-matrix
dtm <- TermDocumentMatrix(docs)
mtx <- as.matrix(dtm)
words <- sort(rowSums(mtx), decreasing = TRUE)
df <- data.frame(word = names(words), freq=words)
```

```{r}
#Creates wordcloud
set.seed(33)

wordcloud(words = df$word, freq = df$freq, min.freq = 1, max.words = 100, random.order = FALSE, rot.per = 0, colors = brewer.pal(4, "Set1"))
```

